This directory contains the implementation of the Guid opaque type.
The files include:

guid.c        : Opaque type implementation
guid.def      : Required file for the implementation on Windows
Guid.java     : Guid Java object used by QueryGuid.java
guid.sql      : SQL script used to register the type in a database
guid_d.sql    : SQL script used to remove the type from a database
Makefile      : Generic makefile for Unix platforms
QueryGuid.ec  : Demonstration ESQL/C client program
QueryGuid.java: Demonstration Java client program
README        : This file
runjava.bat   : simple script to run the QueryGuid program
testit.sql    : Test script to see if the type works
WinNT.mak     : Makefile for Windows

To compile the code, you require a C compiler on your platform. You must 
modify the Makefile before using it.

For Unix, Modify line 3 to reflect the appropriate include file. The
value in the Makefile shows the use of the Linux platform:

TARGET=$(INFORMIXDIR)/incl/dbdk/makeinc.linux

You should have a similar file on your installation with a different
suffix.

For Unix and Windows, if you are planning to use the the Java programs,
modify the line:

JAVA_CLASSPATH=-classpath .;/jdbc221jc5/lib/ifxjdbc.jar

To reflect the proper location of your IBM-Informix JDBC driver.

If you are planning to use the ESQL/C program, you may have to change
the value of INFORMIXDIR before compiling the program.

To build the shared library execute the Makefile.
  On Unix   : make -f makefile
  On Windows: nmake -f winnt.mak

Once the guid.bld file is created:
  1) Create a directory $INFORMIXDIR/extend/guid
  2) Copy guid.bld to $INFORMIXDIR/extend/guid

To register the type into a database, execute the guid.sql script
through dbaccess. For example, assuming a database name of "jroy",
you can execute the command:

  dbaccess -e jroy guid

You can test if the implementation works by executing testit.sql.
You should expect 2 or 3 errors depending on the platform. See
the comments in testit.sql for details.

The testit.sql script creates a table named "tab". It is used by
the client programs. If you want to de-register the Guid type, you
must first drop the table (DROP TABLE tab), then execute the script
guid_d.sql:

  dbaccess -e jroy guid_d

To compile the Java Classes:
  On Unix   : make -f makefile QueryGuid.class
  On Windows: nmake -f winnt.mak QueryGuid.class

To execute the Java program, you can modify the classpath in runjava.bat
and then execute that script. Otherwise, if your environment is set
properly, it should just be a matter of executing:

  java QueryGuid

If you want to try the ESQL/C program, you may have to modify your
INFORMIXDIR environment variable before executing the makefile
with:
  On Unix   : make -f makefile QueryGuid.exe
  On Windows: nmake -f winnt.mak QueryGuid.exe

I already modified the WinNT.mak file to reflect this since, in my
environment, I have the client product installed in
%INFORMIXDIR%\Client-SDK

To execute the ESQL/C program, just type its name at the prompt.

